modules/ROOT/pages/clauses/remove.adoc, before:

:description: The `REMOVE` clause is used to remove properties from nodes and relationships, and to remove labels from nodes.

[[query-remove]]
= REMOVE

The `REMOVE` clause is used to remove properties from nodes and relationships, and to remove labels from nodes.

[TIP]
====
For deleting nodes and relationships, see xref::clauses/delete.adoc[`DELETE`].
====

[NOTE]
====
Removing labels from a node is an idempotent operation: if you try to remove a label from a node that does not have that label on it, nothing happens.
The query statistics will tell you if something needed to be done or not.
====

== Example graph

The following graph is used for the examples below:

image::graph_remove_clause.svg[width="600", role="middle"]

To recreate it, run the following query against an empty Neo4j database:

[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
CREATE
  (a:Swedish {name: 'Andy', age: 36, propTestValue1: 42}),
  (t:Swedish {name: 'Timothy', age: 25, propTestValue2: 42}),
  (p:German:Swedish {name: 'Peter', age: 34}),
  (a)-[:KNOWS]->(t),
  (a)-[:KNOWS]->(p)
----


[[remove-remove-a-property]]
== Remove a property

Neo4j doesn't allow storing `null` in properties.
Instead, if no value exists, the property is just not there.
So, `REMOVE` is used to remove a property value from a node or a relationship.

.Query
[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (a {name: 'Andy'})
REMOVE a.age
RETURN a.name, a.age
----

The node is returned, and no property `age` exists on it.

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| a.name | a.age
| "Andy" | <null>
2+d|Rows: 1 +
Properties set: 1
|===


[[remove-remove-all-properties]]
== Remove all properties

`REMOVE` cannot be used to remove all existing properties from a node or relationship.
Instead, using xref::clauses/set.adoc#set-remove-properties-using-empty-map[`SET` with `=` and an empty map as the right operand] will clear all properties from the node or relationship.

[role=label--new-5.24]
[[remove-remove-a-property-dynamically]]
== Dynamically removing a property

`REMOVE` can be used to remove a property on a node or relationship even when the property key name is not statically known.

[source, syntax]
----
REMOVE n[key]
----

The dynamically calculated key must evaluate to a `STRING` value.
This query creates a copy of every property on the nodes:


.Query
[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (n) 
WITH n, [k IN keys(n) WHERE k CONTAINS "Test" | k] as propertyKeys // <1>
FOREACH (i IN propertyKeys | REMOVE n[i]) // <2>
RETURN n.name, keys(n);
----

<1> The xref:functions/list.adoc#functions-keys[keys()] function retrieves all property keys of the matched nodes, and a xref:values-and-types/lists.adoc#cypher-list-comprehension[list comprehension] filters these keys to include only those that contain the substring "Test", assigning the resulting list to the variable `propertyKeys`.
<2> The xref:clauses/foreach.adoc[`FOREACH`] clause iterates over each key in the `propertyKeys` list and removes the corresponding property using the `REMOVE` clause.

All properties with the word "Test" in them are removed:

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| n.name    | keys(n)
| "Andy"    | ["name", "age"]
| "Timothy" | ["name", "age"]
| "Peter"   | ["name", "age"]
2+d|Rows: 3 +
Properties set: 2
|===

[[remove-remove-a-label-from-a-node]]
== Remove a label from a node

To remove labels, you use `REMOVE`.

.Query
[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (n {name: 'Peter'})
REMOVE n:German
RETURN n.name, labels(n)
----

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| n.name | labels(n)
| "Peter" | ["Swedish"]
2+d|Rows: 1 +
Labels removed: 1
|===

[role=label--new-5.24]
[[remove-remove-a-label-dynamically-from-a-node]]
== Dynamically removing a label

`REMOVE` can be used to remove a label on a node even when the label is not statically known.


[source, syntax]
----
MATCH (n)
REMOVE n:$(expr)
----

.Query
[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (n {name: 'Peter'})
UNWIND labels(n) AS label // <1>
REMOVE n:$(label)
RETURN n.name, labels(n)
----

<1> xref:clauses/unwind.adoc[`UNWIND`] is used here to transform the list of labels from the xref:functions/list.adoc#functions-labels[`labels()]` function into separate rows, allowing subsequent operations to be performed on each label individually.

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| n.name | labels(n)
| "Peter" | []
2+d|Rows: 1 +
Labels removed: 2
|===


[[remove-remove-multiple-labels]]
== Remove multiple labels from a node

To remove multiple labels, you use `REMOVE`.

.Query
[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (n {name: 'Peter'})
REMOVE n:German:Swedish
RETURN n.name, labels(n)
----

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| n.name | labels(n)
| "Peter" | []
2+d|Rows: 1 +
Labels removed: 2
|===

[role=label--new-5.24]
[[remove-remove-multiple-labels-dynamically]]
== Remove multiple labels dynamically from a node

It is possible to remove multiple labels dynamically using a `LIST<STRING>` and/or by chaining them separately with a `:`:

.Query
[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (n {name: 'Peter'})
REMOVE n:$(labels(n))
RETURN n.name, labels(n)
----

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| n.name | labels(n)
| "Peter" | []
2+d|Rows: 1 +
Labels removed: 2
|===

Commit message:

Dynamic labels/types (#1098)
Co-authored-by: Stefano Ottolenghi <stefano.ottolenghi@neo4j.com>

modules/ROOT/pages/clauses/remove.adoc, after:

:description: The `REMOVE` clause is used to remove properties from nodes and relationships, and to remove labels from nodes.

[[query-remove]]
= REMOVE

The `REMOVE` clause is used to remove properties from nodes and relationships, and to remove labels from nodes.

[TIP]
====
For deleting nodes and relationships, see xref::clauses/delete.adoc[`DELETE`].
====

[NOTE]
====
Removing labels from a node is an idempotent operation: if you try to remove a label from a node that does not have that label on it, nothing happens.
The query statistics will tell you if something needed to be done or not.
====

== Example graph

The following graph is used for the examples below:

image::graph_remove_clause.svg[width="600", role="middle"]

To recreate it, run the following query against an empty Neo4j database:

[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
CREATE
  (a:Swedish {name: 'Andy', age: 36, propTestValue1: 42}),
  (t:Swedish {name: 'Timothy', age: 25, propTestValue2: 42}),
  (p:German:Swedish {name: 'Peter', age: 34}),
  (a)-[:KNOWS]->(t),
  (a)-[:KNOWS]->(p)
----


[[remove-remove-a-property]]
== Remove a property

Neo4j doesn't allow storing `null` in properties.
Instead, if no value exists, the property is just not there.
So, `REMOVE` is used to remove a property value from a node or a relationship.

.Query
[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (a {name: 'Andy'})
REMOVE a.age
RETURN a.name, a.age
----

The node is returned, and no property `age` exists on it.

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| a.name | a.age
| "Andy" | <null>
2+d|Rows: 1 +
Properties set: 1
|===


[[remove-remove-all-properties]]
== Remove all properties

`REMOVE` cannot be used to remove all existing properties from a node or relationship.
Instead, using xref::clauses/set.adoc#set-remove-properties-using-empty-map[`SET` with `=` and an empty map as the right operand] will clear all properties from the node or relationship.

[role=label--new-5.24]
[[dynamic-remove-property]]
== Dynamically remove a property

`REMOVE` can be used to remove a property on a node or relationship even when the property key name is not statically known.
This allows for more flexible queries and mitigates the risk of Cypher injection.
(For more information about Cypher injection, see link:https://neo4j.com/developer/kb/protecting-against-cypher-injection/[Neo4j Knowledge Base -> Protecting against Cypher injection]).

[source, syntax]
----
REMOVE n[key]
----

The dynamically calculated key must evaluate to a `STRING` value.
This query creates a copy of every property on the nodes:

.Query
[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (n) 
WITH n, [k IN keys(n) WHERE k CONTAINS "Test" | k] as propertyKeys // <1>
FOREACH (i IN propertyKeys | REMOVE n[i]) // <2>
RETURN n.name, keys(n);
----

<1> The xref:functions/list.adoc#functions-keys[keys()] function retrieves all property keys of the matched nodes, and a xref:values-and-types/lists.adoc#cypher-list-comprehension[list comprehension] filters these keys to include only those that contain the substring "Test", assigning the resulting list to the variable `propertyKeys`.
<2> The xref:clauses/foreach.adoc[`FOREACH`] clause iterates over each key in the `propertyKeys` list and removes the corresponding property using the `REMOVE` clause.

All properties with the word "Test" in them are removed:

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| n.name    | keys(n)
| "Andy"    | ["name", "age"]
| "Timothy" | ["name", "age"]
| "Peter"   | ["name", "age"]
2+d|Rows: 3 +
Properties set: 2
|===

[[remove-remove-a-label-from-a-node]]
== Remove a label from a node

To remove labels, you use `REMOVE`.

.Query
[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (n {name: 'Peter'})
REMOVE n:German
RETURN n.name, labels(n)
----

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| n.name | labels(n)
| "Peter" | ["Swedish"]
2+d|Rows: 1 +
Labels removed: 1
|===

[role=label--new-5.24]
[[dynamic-remove-node-label]]
== Dynamically remove a node label

`REMOVE` can be used to remove a label on a node even when the label is not statically known.

[source, syntax]
----
MATCH (n)
REMOVE n:$(expr)
----

The expression must evaluate to a `STRING NOT NULL | LIST<STRING NOT NULL> NOT NULL` value.

.Query
[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (n {name: 'Peter'})
UNWIND labels(n) AS label // <1>
REMOVE n:$(label)
RETURN n.name, labels(n)
----

<1> xref:clauses/unwind.adoc[`UNWIND`] is used here to transform the list of labels from the xref:functions/list.adoc#functions-labels[`labels()]` function into separate rows, allowing subsequent operations to be performed on each label individually.

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| n.name | labels(n)
| "Peter" | []
2+d|Rows: 1 +
Labels removed: 2
|===


[[remove-remove-multiple-labels]]
== Remove multiple labels from a node

To remove multiple labels, you use `REMOVE`.

.Query
[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (n {name: 'Peter'})
REMOVE n:German:Swedish
RETURN n.name, labels(n)
----

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| n.name | labels(n)
| "Peter" | []
2+d|Rows: 1 +
Labels removed: 2
|===

[role=label--new-5.24]
[[remove-remove-multiple-labels-dynamically]]
== Remove multiple labels dynamically from a node

It is possible to remove multiple labels dynamically using a `LIST<STRING>` and/or by chaining them separately with a `:`:

.Query
[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (n {name: 'Peter'})
REMOVE n:$(labels(n))
RETURN n.name, labels(n)
----

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| n.name | labels(n)
| "Peter" | []
2+d|Rows: 1 +
Labels removed: 2
|===
