modules/ROOT/pages/clauses/use.adoc, before:

[[query-use]]
= USE
:description: The `USE` clause determines which graph a query, or query part, is executed against.


The `USE` clause determines which graph a query, or query part, is executed against.
It is supported for queries and schema commands.


[[query-use-syntax]]
== Syntax

The `USE` clause can only appear as the prefix of schema commands, or as the first clause of queries:

[source, syntax, role="noheader"]
----
USE <graph>
<other clauses>
----

Where `<graph>` refers to the name or alias of a database in the DBMS.


[[query-use-syntax-composite]]
=== Composite database syntax

When running queries against a link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/{page-version}/database-administration/composite-databases/concepts/[composite database], the `USE` clause can also appear as the first clause of:

* Union parts:
+
[source, syntax, role="noheader"]
----
USE <graph>
<other clauses>
  UNION
USE <graph>
<other clauses>
----

* Subqueries:
+
[source, syntax, role="noheader"]
----
CALL () {
  USE <graph>
  <other clauses>
}
----
+
In subqueries, a `USE` clause may appear directly following the xref:subqueries/call-subquery.adoc#variable-scope-clause[variable scope clause]: `CALL () { ... }` (introduced in Neo4j 5.23).
Or, if you are using an older version of Neo4j, directly following an xref::subqueries/call-subquery.adoc#importing-with[importing `WITH` clause].

When executing queries against a composite database, the `USE` clause must only refer to graphs that are part of the current composite database.


[[query-use-examples]]
== Examples

////
[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
CREATE DATABASE myDatabase;
CREATE COMPOSITE DATABASE `myComposite`;
CREATE ALIAS `myComposite`.`myConstituent` FOR DATABASE `myDatabase`;
----
////

[[query-use-examples-query-graph]]
=== Query a graph

In this example it is assumed that the DBMS contains a database named `myDatabase`:

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
USE myDatabase
MATCH (n) RETURN n
----

[[query-use-examples-query-composite-database-constituent-graph]]
=== Query a composite database constituent graph

In this example it is assumed that the DBMS contains a composite database named `myComposite`, which includes an alias named `myConstituent`:

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
USE myComposite.myConstituent
MATCH (n) RETURN n
----


[[query-use-examples-query-composite-database-constituent-graph-dynamically]]
=== Query a composite database constituent graph dynamically

The built-in function `graph.byName()` can be used in the `USE` clause to resolve a constituent graph from a `STRING` value containing the qualified name of a constituent.

This example uses a composite database named `myComposite` that includes an alias named `myConstituent`:

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
USE graph.byName('myComposite.myConstituent')
MATCH (n) RETURN n
----

The argument can be any expression that evaluates to the name of a constituent graph - for example a parameter:

// can't run this through drivers, we need a value when initializing a session
.Query
[source, cypher, role=test-skip]
----
USE graph.byName($graphName)
MATCH (n) RETURN n
----

[[query-use-examples-query-composite-database-by-element-id]]
=== Query a composite database constituent using elementId

The `graph.byElementId()` function (introduced in Neo4j 5.13), can be used in the `USE` clause to resolve a constituent graph to which a given element id belongs.
In the below example, it is assumed that the DBMS contains a composite database constituent, which contains the element id `4:c0a65d96-4993-4b0c-b036-e7ebd9174905:0`.
If the constituent database is not a standard database in the DBMS an error will be thrown:
.Query
[source, cypher, role=test-skip]
----
USE graph.byElementId("4:c0a65d96-4993-4b0c-b036-e7ebd9174905:0")
MATCH (n) RETURN n
----

Commit message:

Document the availability of graph.byelementid on standard databases (#1120)

modules/ROOT/pages/clauses/use.adoc, after:

[[query-use]]
= USE
:description: The `USE` clause determines which graph a query, or query part, is executed against.


The `USE` clause determines which graph a query, or query part, is executed against.
It is supported for queries and schema commands.


[[query-use-syntax]]
== Syntax

The `USE` clause can only appear as the prefix of schema commands, or as the first clause of queries:

[source, syntax, role="noheader"]
----
USE <graph>
<other clauses>
----

Where `<graph>` refers to the name or alias of a database in the DBMS.


[[query-use-syntax-composite]]
=== Composite database syntax

When running queries against a link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/{page-version}/database-administration/composite-databases/concepts/[composite database], the `USE` clause can also appear as the first clause of:

* Union parts:
+
[source, syntax, role="noheader"]
----
USE <graph>
<other clauses>
  UNION
USE <graph>
<other clauses>
----

* Subqueries:
+
[source, syntax, role="noheader"]
----
CALL () {
  USE <graph>
  <other clauses>
}
----
+
In subqueries, a `USE` clause may appear directly following the xref:subqueries/call-subquery.adoc#variable-scope-clause[variable scope clause]: `CALL () { ... }` (introduced in Neo4j 5.23).
Or, if you are using an older version of Neo4j, directly following an xref::subqueries/call-subquery.adoc#importing-with[importing `WITH` clause].

When executing queries against a composite database, the `USE` clause must only refer to graphs that are part of the current composite database.


[[query-use-examples]]
== Examples

////
[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
CREATE DATABASE myDatabase;
CREATE COMPOSITE DATABASE `myComposite`;
CREATE ALIAS `myComposite`.`myConstituent` FOR DATABASE `myDatabase`;
----
////

[[query-use-examples-query-graph]]
=== Query a graph

In this example it is assumed that the DBMS contains a database named `myDatabase`:

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
USE myDatabase
MATCH (n) RETURN n
----

[[query-use-examples-query-composite-database-constituent-graph]]
=== Query a composite database constituent graph

In this example it is assumed that the DBMS contains a composite database named `myComposite`, which includes an alias named `myConstituent`:

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
USE myComposite.myConstituent
MATCH (n) RETURN n
----


[[query-use-examples-query-composite-database-constituent-graph-dynamically]]
=== Query a composite database constituent graph dynamically

The xref:functions/graph.adoc#functions-graph-byname[`graph.byName()`] function can be used in the `USE` clause to resolve a constituent graph from a `STRING` value containing the qualified name of a constituent.

This example uses a composite database named `myComposite` that includes an alias named `myConstituent`:

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
USE graph.byName('myComposite.myConstituent')
MATCH (n) RETURN n
----

The argument can be any expression that evaluates to the name of a constituent graph - for example a parameter:

// can't run this through drivers, we need a value when initializing a session
.Query
[source, cypher, role=test-skip]
----
USE graph.byName($graphName)
MATCH (n) RETURN n
----

[role=label--new-5.13]
[[query-use-examples-query-composite-database-by-element-id]]
=== Query a composite database constituent using elementId

The xref:functions/graph.adoc#functions-graph-by-elementid[`graph.byElementId()`] function can be used in the `USE` clause to resolve a constituent graph to which a given xref:functions/scalar.adoc#functions-elementid[element id] belongs.
As of Neo4j 5.26, it is supported on both standard and composite databases (on previous versions it is only available on composite databases).

[NOTE]
On a standard database, a `USE` clause with `graph.byElementId()` cannot be combined with other `USE` clauses unless the subsequent `USE` clauses reference the same element id.

In the below example, it is assumed that the DBMS contains the database corresponding to the given element id. If you are connected to a composite database it needs to be a element id to a constituent database, which is a standard database in the DBMS.

.Query
[source, cypher, role=test-skip]
----
USE graph.byElementId("4:c0a65d96-4993-4b0c-b036-e7ebd9174905:0")
MATCH (n) RETURN n
----
